---
layout: post
title: Welcome!
---

Welcome to the Russian Ads Project! This site features data visualizations based on [a dataset](https://mith.umd.edu/irads/data/) created by the University of Maryland. This dataset documents a series of Facebook ads purchased the Russian troll farm, the Internet Research Agency. Many of these ads are targeted towards users who come from certain ethnic and racial backgrounds; who live in different places around the United States; and who have different interests and political views. Although certain user groups are targeted more often than others, there is no single type of user who is always affected by these ads. Although many ads write in support of Donald Trump and against Hillary Clinton, there are also some ads that promote liberal causes.

The internet is a relatively new playing field for propaganda. In recent years, journalists and researchers have written about the ways that internet-based disinformation changes the outside world. This became quite the hot topic during the 2016 United States Presidential election. This dataset represents the writing of these down into a document. It also represents a major turning point in that Congress recognized Facebook as the wielder of a considerable amount of influence. 

Data & Society writes that “Because the internet is a tool, a tactic, and a territory -- integral to challenging the relations of power -- studying the new vulnerabilities of networked media is fundamental to the future of democracies.” This split definition of the internet highlights the ways that the internet is used for both helpful and harmful ends. 

Tool -- A librarian might tell you that the internet is a tool. You can use it to research. You can also do a lot more with it. You can talk with your friends on Facebook; you can rate restaurants on Yelp; you can buy vintage jackets on eBay; you can pay your car loan on your bank’s website… As Ian Bogost notes, computers have become less the tool of experienced or potential programmers, and more a product that the average person can use to live their lives.

Tactic -- As Data & Society notes, the internet has broad applications as a tactic to disseminate disinformation and manipulate media, including its ties to participatory culture.

Territory -- Anyone who has spent a significant amount of time online can tell you that the internet has its own geography. Based on hyperlinks and metadata, websites are situated near each other. Depending on the websites, there may be a sub-geography, as represented in [map of Reddit]. Yes, the internet is contained within tubes that run beneath the ocean. But it’s hard not to think of it as its own world, divorced from its technology.

My goal in delineating the ads is to make quantitative something that American news media has discussed since the 2016 presidential election. Although quantification in no way means something is readable or clear, by putting the data into charts, I hope to make it more visible and accessible. I also just wanted to learn more about Russian disinformation campaigns on Facebook. Like many Americans, I knew about these campaigns. I'd heard about them on the news, read about them online, and discussed them in class. But I was by no means an expert. After undertaking this project, I am still not an expert, but I do know a lot more than I did before!

Browse the site through the links on your left.